.TH "src/oauth.h" 3 "8 Jan 2008" "Version 0.1.1" "oAuth library functions" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
src/oauth.h \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBOAuthMethod\fP { \fBOA_HMAC\fP = 0, \fBOA_RSA\fP, \fBOA_PLAINTEXT\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIsignature method to used for signing the request. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBoauth_b64_encode\fP (unsigned char u)"
.br
.RI "\fIBase64 encode one byte. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBoauth_b64_decode\fP (char c)"
.br
.RI "\fIDecode a single base64 character. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBoauth_b64_is_base64\fP (char c)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturn TRUE if 'c' is a valid base64 character, otherwise FALSE. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBoauth_encode_base64\fP (int size, unsigned char *src)"
.br
.RI "\fIBase64 encode and return size data in 'src'. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBoauth_decode_base64\fP (unsigned char *dest, const char *src)"
.br
.RI "\fIDecode the base64 encoded string 'src' into the memory pointed to by 'dest'. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBurl_escape\fP (const char *string)"
.br
.RI "\fIEscape 'string' according to RFC3986 and http://oauth.net/core/1.0/#encoding_parameters. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBoauth_sign_hmac_sha1\fP (char *m, char *k)"
.br
.RI "\fIreturns base64 encoded HMAC-SHA1 signature for given message and key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBoauth_sign_plaintext\fP (char *m, char *k)"
.br
.RI "\fIreturns plaintext signature for the given key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBoauth_sign_rsa_sha1\fP (char *m, char *k)"
.br
.RI "\fIreturns RSA signature for given data. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBcatenc\fP (int len,...)"
.br
.RI "\fIencode strings and concatenate with '&' separator. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsplit_url_parameters\fP (const char *url, char ***argv)"
.br
.RI "\fIsplits the given url into a parameter array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBserialize_url\fP (int argc, int start, char **argv)"
.br
.RI "\fIbuild a url query sting from an array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBserialize_url_parameters\fP (int argc, char **argv)"
.br
.RI "\fIbuild a query parameter string from an array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBgen_nonce\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIgenerate a random string between 15 and 32 chars length and return a pointer to it. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBoauth_cmpstringp\fP (const void *p1, const void *p2)"
.br
.RI "\fIstring compare function for oauth parameters. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBoauth_sign_url\fP (const char *url, char **postargs, \fBOAuthMethod\fP method, const char *c_key, const char *c_secret, const char *t_key, const char *t_secret)"
.br
.RI "\fIcalculate oAuth-signature for a given request URL, parameters and oauth-tokens. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBoauth_http_post\fP (char *u, char *p)"
.br
.RI "\fIdo a HTTP POST request, wait for it to finish and return the content of the reply. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Enumeration Type Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "enum \fBOAuthMethod\fP"
.PP
signature method to used for signing the request. 
.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIOA_HMAC \fP\fP
use HMAC-SHA1 request signing method 
.TP
\fB\fIOA_RSA \fP\fP
use RSA signature (not implemented) 
.TP
\fB\fIOA_PLAINTEXT \fP\fP
use plain text signature (for testing only) 
.PP
Definition at line 26 of file oauth.h.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "char* catenc (int len,  ...)"
.PP
encode strings and concatenate with '&' separator. 
.PP
The number of strings to be concatenated must be given as first argument. all arguments thereafter must be of type (char *)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIlen\fP the number of arguments to follow this parameter 
.br
\fI...\fP string to escape and added
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
pointer to memory holding the concatenated strings - needs to be free(d) by the caller. or NULL in case we ran out of memory. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* gen_nonce ()"
.PP
generate a random string between 15 and 32 chars length and return a pointer to it. 
.PP
The value needs to be freed by the caller
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
zero terminated random string. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "unsigned char oauth_b64_decode (char c)"
.PP
Decode a single base64 character. 
.PP
.SS "char oauth_b64_encode (unsigned char u)"
.PP
Base64 encode one byte. 
.PP
.SS "int oauth_b64_is_base64 (char c)"
.PP
Return TRUE if 'c' is a valid base64 character, otherwise FALSE. 
.PP
.SS "int oauth_cmpstringp (const void * p1, const void * p2)"
.PP
string compare function for oauth parameters. 
.PP
used with qsort. needed to normalize request parameters. see http://oauth.net/core/1.0/#anchor14 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "int oauth_decode_base64 (unsigned char * dest, const char * src)"
.PP
Decode the base64 encoded string 'src' into the memory pointed to by 'dest'. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIdest\fP Pointer to memory for holding the decoded string. Must be large enough to recieve the decoded string. 
.br
\fIsrc\fP A base64 encoded string. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
the length of the decoded string if decode succeeded otherwise 0. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* oauth_encode_base64 (int size, unsigned char * src)"
.PP
Base64 encode and return size data in 'src'. 
.PP
The caller must free the returned string.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIsize\fP The size of the data in src 
.br
\fIsrc\fP The data to be base64 encode 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
encoded string otherwise NULL 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* oauth_http_post (char * u, char * p)"
.PP
do a HTTP POST request, wait for it to finish and return the content of the reply. 
.PP
(requires libcurl or a command-line HTTP client)
.PP
If compiled \fBwithout\fP libcurl this function calls a command-line executable defined in the environment variable OAUTH_HTTP_CMD - it defaults to \fCcurl -sA 'liboauth-agent/0.1' -d '%p' '%u'\fP where %p is replaced with the postargs and %u is replaced with the URL.
.PP
bash & wget example: \fCexport OAUTH_HTTP_CMD='wget -q -U 'liboauth-agent/0.1' --post-data='%p' '%u' '\fP
.PP
WARNING: this is a tentative function. it's convenient and handy for testing or developing oAuth code. But don't rely on this function to become a stable part of this API. It does not do much error checking or handing for one thing..
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIu\fP url to query 
.br
\fIp\fP postargs to send along with the HTTP request. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
replied content from HTTP server. needs to be freed by caller. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* oauth_sign_hmac_sha1 (char * m, char * k)"
.PP
returns base64 encoded HMAC-SHA1 signature for given message and key. 
.PP
both data and key need to be urlencoded.
.PP
the returned string needs to be freed by the caller
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIm\fP message to be signed 
.br
\fIk\fP key used for signing 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
signature string. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* oauth_sign_plaintext (char * m, char * k)"
.PP
returns plaintext signature for the given key. 
.PP
the returned string needs to be freed by the caller
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIm\fP message to be signed 
.br
\fIk\fP key used for signing 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
signature string 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* oauth_sign_rsa_sha1 (char * m, char * k)"
.PP
returns RSA signature for given data. 
.PP
data needs to be urlencoded.
.PP
THIS FUNCTION IS NOT YET IMPLEMENTED!
.PP
the returned string needs to be freed by the caller.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIm\fP message to be signed 
.br
\fIk\fP key used for signing 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
signature string. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* oauth_sign_url (const char * url, char ** postargs, \fBOAuthMethod\fP method, const char * c_key, const char * c_secret, const char * t_key, const char * t_secret)"
.PP
calculate oAuth-signature for a given request URL, parameters and oauth-tokens. 
.PP
if 'postargs' is NULL a 'GET' request is signed and the signed URL is returned. Else this fn will modify 'postargs' to point to memory that contains the signed POST-variables and returns the base URL.
.PP
both, the return value and (if given) 'postargs' need to be freed by the caller.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIurl\fP The request URL to be signed. append all GET or POST query-parameters separated by either '?' or '&' to this parameter.
.br
\fIpostargs\fP This parameter points to an area where the return value is stored. If 'postargs' is NULL, no value is stored.
.br
\fImethod\fP specify the signature method to use. It is of type \fBOAuthMethod\fP and most likely \fBOA_HMAC\fP.
.br
\fIc_key\fP consumer key 
.br
\fIc_secret\fP consumer secret 
.br
\fIt_key\fP token key 
.br
\fIt_secret\fP token secret
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
the signed url or NULL if an error occurred. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* serialize_url (int argc, int start, char ** argv)"
.PP
build a url query sting from an array. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIargc\fP the total number of elements in the array 
.br
\fIstart\fP element in the array at which to start concatenating. 
.br
\fIargv\fP parameter-array to concatenate. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
url string needs to be freed by the caller. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* serialize_url_parameters (int argc, char ** argv)"
.PP
build a query parameter string from an array. 
.PP
This function is a shortcut for \fBserialize_url\fP (argc, 1, argv). It strips the leading host/path, which is usually the first element when using split_url_parameters on an URL.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIargc\fP the total number of elements in the array 
.br
\fIargv\fP parameter-array to concatenate. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
url string needs to be freed by the caller. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "int split_url_parameters (const char * url, char *** argv)"
.PP
splits the given url into a parameter array. 
.PP
(see \fBserialize_url\fP and \fBserialize_url_parameters\fP for the reverse)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIurl\fP the url or query-string to parse. 
.br
\fIargv\fP pointer to a (char *) array where the results are stored. The array is re-allocated to match the number of parameters and each parameter-string is allocated with strdup. - The memory needs to be freed by the caller.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
number of parameter(s) in array. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SS "char* url_escape (const char * string)"
.PP
Escape 'string' according to RFC3986 and http://oauth.net/core/1.0/#encoding_parameters. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIstring\fP The data to be encoded 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
encoded string otherwise NULL The caller must free the returned string. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBtests/oauthtest.c\fP.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for oAuth library functions from the source code.
